checklist.md, before:

# Checklist

Note: hardware development starts only in step four, the preparation phase is important if one does not want to end up reinventing the wheel of producing useless hardware.

## Step 1: Idea generation

This should all be included in the readme file:

- [ ] General information
  - [ ] name of the project
  - [ ] development stage: idea generation
  - [ ] *type of hardware, subject area*
  - [ ] **License**
  - [ ] FOR WHO IS MADE THIS DOCUMENT
  - [ ] short problem description 
  
- [ ] vision and motivations
  
- [ ] Contributions
  - [ ] List of team members / contributors
  - [ ] skills required, who could contribute (at this point)

  - [ ] contact point information / communication channel and tools used for communication (this can also be one email address)
  
- [ ] Funding information
  - [ ] List of Sponsors and funding
  - [ ] List of putative funding opportunities

## Step 2: needs analysis

Note: using a canva to analyse the project may be useful at this point.
- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] *ethics statement (human/animal use or Informed Consent Statement)*
  - [ ] *competing interest*
  - [ ] future work, roadmap
  - [ ] development stage: needs analysis
  - [ ] *Project history summary*
  - [ ] longer problem description 
  - [ ] Documentation structure
  
  
- [ ] Contributions
  - [ ] Contribution guidelines
  - [ ] work culture that you want to promote
  - [ ] Code of conduct  

- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] requirements
  - [ ] constrains
  - [ ] capability
  

- [ ] User analysis (this can be a personas analysis)
  - [ ] target groups (who will use the product)
  - [ ] External interfaces (how will they use the product)
  - [ ] skills needed to use
  
- [ ] History
  - [ ] *changes log*
  
## Step 3: Concept development

- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: concept development
  - [ ] dependencies 
  - [ ] *conclusions*
  - [ ] software used for development

  
- [ ] History
  - [ ]  release note
  - [ ]  design_choices
  - [ ]  update change log
  
  
- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] update hardwareoverview
    - [ ] application, use cases
    - [ ] *reuse potential*
    - [ ] architectural structure
    - [ ] *foreseen cost + time cost*
  - [ ] functional model
  - [ ] behavioral model: *Modelling tool list*
  - [ ] Similar projects

  



## Step 4: product development and prototyping

Here the work on the design starts! Continous documentation of choice made, successes and fails are welcome, so this step has an iterative components: with every development can come specific documentation.

### Step 4a: preparations
- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: prototyping
  - [ ] Standard compliance
  - [ ] Product outputs (if relevant: data outputs)
  - [ ] Citing information

  
- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] Software/firmware architecture
  - [ ] electrical design architecture

### Step 4b: iteration of design

- [ ] Product design
  - [ ] Bill of material
  - [ ] material characteristics
  - [ ] electrical design
  - [ ] Software: Documentation of different parts
  
- [ ] Manufacturing instructions  
    - [ ] Manufacturing skills and tools
    - [ ] Manufacturing sequences and instruction
    
- [ ] Assembly instructions
  - [ ] assembly skills and tools
  - [ ] Safety information
  - [ ] Assembly sequence and instruction

- [ ] User guide
  - [ ] Safety information
  - [ ] overview of the hardware
  - [ ] Operation instructions
  - [ ] Testing instructions and troubleshooting
  - [ ] basic maintenance + schedule
  - [ ] basic disposal
  
- [ ] History  
  - [ ] update changelog/release note
  - [ ] update design choice history


## Step 5: replicator step

Here the prototype is mature enough that it should be replicated in different places. While most of the work was already present at step 4, here we go into more quality and details.

- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: replication ready
  - [ ] scientific publication
  - [ ] education resources
  - [ ] Institutional Review Board Statement
  - [ ] discussions
  - [ ] validation
  - [ ] cost
  
- [ ] Assembly instructions
  - [ ] disassembly  

- [ ] Product design
  - [ ] component lifespan
  
- [ ] User guide
  - [ ] Environmental management
  - [ ] Identifying the defective components
  - [ ] Repairing the defective components
  - [ ] Replacing equipment components

Commit message:

adding hardware summary in readme in concept stage

checklist.md, after:

# Checklist

Note_1: hardware development starts only in step four, the preparation phase is important if one does not want to end up reinventing the wheel of producing useless hardware.
Note_2: Step 1-3 have an iterative nature: Especially, the analysis of "Similar projects" coming in step 3, and the prototyping (step 4) are often giving new ideas and refining use cases.

## Step 1: Idea generation

This should all be included in the readme file:

- [ ] General information
  - [ ] name of the project
  - [ ] development stage: idea generation
  - [ ] *type of hardware, subject area*
  - [ ] **License**
  - [ ] FOR WHO IS MADE THIS DOCUMENT
  - [ ] short problem description 
  
- [ ] vision and motivations
  
- [ ] Contributions
  - [ ] List of team members / contributors
  - [ ] skills required, who could contribute (at this point)

  - [ ] contact point information / communication channel and tools used for communication (this can also be one email address)
  
- [ ] Funding information
  - [ ] List of Sponsors and funding
  - [ ] List of putative funding opportunities

## Step 2: needs analysis

Note: using a canva to analyse the project may be useful at this point.
- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] *ethics statement (human/animal use or Informed Consent Statement)*
  - [ ] *competing interest*
  - [ ] future work, roadmap
  - [ ] development stage: needs analysis
  - [ ] *Project history summary*
  - [ ] longer problem description 
  - [ ] Documentation structure
  
  
- [ ] Contributions
  - [ ] Contribution guidelines
  - [ ] work culture that you want to promote
  - [ ] Code of conduct  

- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] requirements
  - [ ] constrains
  - [ ] capability
  

- [ ] User analysis (this can be a personas analysis)
  - [ ] target groups (who will use the product)
  - [ ] External interfaces (how will they use the product)
  - [ ] skills needed to use
  
- [ ] History
  - [ ] *changes log*
  
## Step 3: Concept development

- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: concept development
  - [ ] dependencies 
  - [ ] *conclusions*
  - [ ] software used for development
  - [ ] harware summary overview

  
- [ ] History
  - [ ]  release note
  - [ ]  design_choices
  - [ ]  update change log
  
  
- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] update hardwareoverview
    - [ ] application, use cases
    - [ ] *reuse potential*
    - [ ] architectural structure
    - [ ] *foreseen cost + time cost*
  - [ ] functional model
  - [ ] behavioral model: *Modelling tool list*
  - [ ] Similar projects

  



## Step 4: product development and prototyping

Here the work on the design starts! Continous documentation of choice made, successes and fails are welcome, so this step has an iterative components: with every development can come specific documentation.

### Step 4a: preparations
- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: prototyping
  - [ ] Standard compliance
  - [ ] Product outputs (if relevant: data outputs)
  - [ ] Citing information

  
- [ ] Product development
  - [ ] Software/firmware architecture
  - [ ] electrical design architecture

### Step 4b: iteration of design

- [ ] Product design
  - [ ] Bill of material
  - [ ] material characteristics
  - [ ] electrical design
  - [ ] Software: Documentation of different parts
  
- [ ] Manufacturing instructions  
    - [ ] Manufacturing skills and tools
    - [ ] Manufacturing sequences and instruction
    
- [ ] Assembly instructions
  - [ ] assembly skills and tools
  - [ ] Safety information
  - [ ] Assembly sequence and instruction

- [ ] User guide
  - [ ] Safety information
  - [ ] overview of the hardware
  - [ ] Operation instructions
  - [ ] Testing instructions and troubleshooting
  - [ ] basic maintenance + schedule
  - [ ] basic disposal
  
- [ ] History  
  - [ ] update changelog/release note
  - [ ] update design choice history


## Step 5: replicator step

Here the prototype is mature enough that it should be replicated in different places. While most of the work was already present at step 4, here we go into more quality and details.

- [ ] Complete the readme file
  - [ ] development stage: replication ready
  - [ ] scientific publication
  - [ ] education resources
  - [ ] Institutional Review Board Statement
  - [ ] discussions
  - [ ] validation
  - [ ] cost
  
- [ ] Assembly instructions
  - [ ] disassembly  

- [ ] Product design
  - [ ] component lifespan
  
- [ ] User guide
  - [ ] Environmental management
  - [ ] Identifying the defective components
  - [ ] Repairing the defective components
  - [ ] Replacing equipment components
